# Background

Hello. My name is Thomas, but must people call me Tom or Tommy. I'm a Mechanical Engineering student at the <a href="https://engineering.wisc.edu/" target="_blank">University of Wisconsin - Madison</a>. I made this website to show a little bit of who I am and what I do.

## Mill City Roasters

I started working at Mill City Roasters when I was fifteen years old, the summer after freshman year of high school. I would take the bus and walk for a combined total of an hour long commute both ways. When I was in high school, I mostly did work in the roastery, mainly packaging coffee, green and roasted, and cleaning. I worked there for two summers before I switched to working in a bike shop when I was seventeen. After my freshman year of college I returned to Mill City in search of work that related more to what I was learning in school. That summer, using drawings from their factory in China along with access to the roasters, made assemblies in Autocad Inventor of the company’s entire product lineup. These 3D models are used today for marketing, installation guides, and communications with customers.

## Blower Mount

On the roasters, behind the drum is a blower that pushes the exhaust out of the drum and up into the ventilation system. The blower is typically routed to a chaff can directly behind the roaster as can be seen in the diagram represented by the red vent. In this case however, due to space constraints, a customer needed to have their chaff collector be on the side of the roaster rather than behind. To do acheive this it was decided that the blower should be rotated 135 degrees counter clockwise. I acheived this by designing two mirrored brackets that would

## Summer 2023

In January 2023 I decided that I would buy a car in the spring and go to Iowa to live with my grandparents and work with my uncle on the family farm. I’d always heard stories about my grandparents, great grandparents, and my dad. Stories about how hard life is on the farm, and how unrelenting the work is. Stories like my great-grandfather’s teenage siblings raising him after his parents died of the Spainish flu, while also taking over the responsibilities of the farm. I was raised to hold hard work in high regard and being the first generation on my dad’s side not brought up on the farm, I’ve often wondered if I had what it took to live some form of that life. So, I decided to find out.

May 2023, I purchased a manual 1992 Volkswagen Cabriolet that I didn’t really know how to drive and that broke the day I bought it. After fixing and driving it home to the Twin Cities I left for Iowa to start my summer. In Iowa I worked with my uncle building houses during the day as a carpenter, and at nights and on the weekends he, my grandpa, and I tended to the farm and worked odd jobs. As a carpenter I worked with a crew of 4-6 people throughout the summer that would often change depending on who needed to cut or rake hay. Over the course of the summer we built a large, single family home, doing all the structural building as well as most of the finish carpentry. As a carpenter I learned many new things and grew much more comfortable using a variety of tools.

As a farmer I would help my uncle with whatever he was doing, whether that be checking cows, fixing the fenceline, mowing and baling hay, moving the herds, or fixing machinery. Often he and I would go straight from working on the house to the farm to do something else. Some of the highlights (depending on your point of view) were pushing cows through the chute for administering medicine, helping deliver a calf, finding fossils in the woods, and watching meteor showers laying on a hay bale in the middle of the night. It was the most I’ve worked, and the loneliest I’ve been, but in many ways it was a very good experience. I got to live a lifestyle other than my own, one that was not the same, but similar to what some of my family members have lived or are living. I got a taste of what could have been my life had certain things been different.
